

This model is from the article:  
**Overexpression limits of fission yeast cell-cycle regulators in vivo and in silico.**   
Moriya H, Chino A, Kapuy O, Csikász-Nagy A, Novák B. _Mol Syst Biol._ 2011 Dec
6;7:556. [22146300](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22146300) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Cellular systems are generally robust against fluctuations of intracellular
parameters such as gene expression level. However, little is known about
expression limits of genes required to halt cellular systems. In this study,
using the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, we developed a genetic
'tug-of-war' (gTOW) method to assess the overexpression limit of certain
genes. Using gTOW, we determined copy number limits for 31 cell-cycle
regulators; the limits varied from 1 to >100\. Comparison with orthologs of
the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae suggested the presence of a
conserved fragile core in the eukaryotic cell cycle. Robustness profiles of
networks regulating cytokinesis in both yeasts (septation-initiation network
(SIN) and mitotic exit network (MEN)) were quite different, probably
reflecting differences in their physiologic functions. Fragility in the
regulation of GTPase spg1 was due to dosage imbalance against GTPase-
activating protein (GAP) byr4. Using the gTOW data, we modified a mathematical
model and successfully reproduced the robustness of the S. pombe cell cycle
with the model.

  

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

  

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

